# Introduction: The Xing Origin Story

The goal of Xing is simple: to make advanced web development as easy as possible. Like most web technologies, it has a story behind it that illuminates the choices you'll see in the framework.

Xing closely reflects the values of Logical Reality Design., the company that created it. We're a small web development agency. Our company is a bit scrappy, a bit quirky, and full of people who are passionate about the art of coding. We've been doing web development for seventeen years, and for the last seven Ruby on Rails has been our primary tool. Two years ago, our toolset in Ruby on Rails had become very mature. Building server side applications had become almost routine. But we could see that massive change was on the horizon. For the web to truly succeed, it has to embrace the browser as its application platform. So we decided to dive head first into a totally different model for building web applications.

As it turned out, our plan to build a javascript based client that talked to an API only server was a bit more difficult than we'd planned. We'd chosen what we thought were the best tools for the job. But we discovered quickly those tools worked well in isolation but not always together. The complexity of development seemed to increase exponentially. We found ourselves re-solving problems whose solutions we'd taken for granted for years. And we weren't alone. As we went to meetups, we found other experienced developers were struggling to figure things out. And new developers were completely lost; the barrier to entry that Rails helped lower raised right back up.

Xing represents two years of efforts to clear these paths, so that other folks don't have to. After two years of growing pains, we're pretty happy writing applications with it. We just released the first large commercial application written in the framework. Xing is definitely our most ambitious technical project to date. Making it at times drove us a bit mad and at least once or twice put our company in challenging economic situations. But we made it so that other companies like ours can easily build amazing web applications. We offer it as a single integrated tool so that a small team of developers has everything they need to compete with much larger teams. And to hopefully give new developers a life raft in the sea of complexity that is modern web development. 

